feat: waku rendezvous spec (#32)
waku-org/specs: standards/core/rendezvous.md

---
title: WAKU-RENDEZVOUS

> name: Waku rendez vous discovery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
name: Waku Rendezvous Discovery
```

Author: I hate it but I guess it's the English language...

Reviewer: 😆 I apologise on behalf of English.

editor: Simon-Pierre Vivier <simvivier@status.im>
contributors:
---

## Abstract

> This document describe the goal,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the goal,
```

strategy and usage of the libp2p rendezvous protocol by Waku.

> Rendezvous is one of the discovery methods that can be used by Waku,
> it supplements Discovery v5 and Waku peer exchange but fill a specific role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rendezvous is one of the discovery methods that can be used by Waku.
It supplements Discovery v5 and Waku peer exchange.
```

## Background and Rationale
How do new nodes join the network is the question that discovery answers.
Discovery must be fast, pertinent and resilient to attacks.
Rendezvous is both fast and allow the discovery of relevant peers,

> although by it's design can be easily abused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
although it can be easily abused due to its design that clusters discoverable nodes around rendezvous points.
```

Author: I was thinking of DDOS

Reviewer: Indeed! I guess my point is simply to qualify the statement somewhat.

The properties of rendezvous complements well the slower but safer methods like Discv5.

> To contribute well, a Waku nodes must know a sufficient number of peers with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To contribute well, a Waku node must know a sufficient number of peers with
```

a wide variety of capabilities.
By using rendezvous in combination with
[Discv5](https://github.com/ethereum/devp2p/blob/master/discv5/discv5.md#node-discovery-protocol-v5) and
[Waku peer exchange](https://github.com/waku-org/specs/blob/master/standards/core/peer-exchange.md#abstract),
Waku nodes will reach a good number of meaningful peers
faster than through a single discovery method.

## Semantics

> Waku rendezvous fully inherit the [libp2p rendezvous semantics](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/rendezvous/README.md#rendezvous-protocol).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waku rendezvous fully inherits the [libp2p rendezvous semantics](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/rendezvous/README.md#rendezvous-protocol).
```

## Specifications
The namespaces used to register and request will be in the format `rs/cluster-id/shard`.

> Every [Waku Relay](https://github.com/vacp2p/rfc-index/blob/main/waku/standards/core/11/relay.md) node will also be initialized as a rendezvous point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every [Waku Relay](https://github.com/vacp2p/rfc-index/blob/main/waku/standards/core/11/relay.md) node SHOULD also be initialized as a rendezvous point.
```

> Each relay node will register with random rendezvous points every 10 seconds,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each relay node that participates in rendezvous discovery
MUST register with random rendezvous points at regular intervals.
We RECOMMEND a registration interval of 10 seconds.
```

> once for each shard it supports and register only the namespace corresponding to that shard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The node SHOULD register once for every shart it supports, registering only the namespace corresponding to that shard.
```

> Each registrations will expire after 1 minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We RECOMMEND that rendezvous points expire registrations after 1 minute,
in order to keep discovered peer records to those recently online.
```

> At startup, every Waku nodes will discover peers by sending requests to random rendezvous points,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At startup, every Waku node SHOULD discover peers by sending requests to random rendezvous points,
```

once for each shard it supports.

> A maximum of 12 peers will be requested each time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We RECOMMEND a maximum of 12 peers be requested each time.
```

This number is enough for good GossipSub connectivity and
minimize the load on rendezvous points.

> It is assumed that the bootstrap node used is a rendezvous point and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We RECOMMEND that the bootstrap node used is a rendezvous point and
```
